A Supplication for the Longevity of the Peerless and Sublime Tulku, Dzongsar Khyentse, Thupten
Chökyi Gyatso
by Shechen Rabjam Rinpoche

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
gyal chok tubwang tob chu ngawé dak
Majestic lord of the ten powers and supreme victor, Buddha, the king of sages,
gyalsé gyé dang neten té rab sok
Eight great Bodhisattvas, Sixteen Arhats, Seven Entrusted Ones and more;
gyalten mijé shying dir nang jepé
You who illuminate the teaching of Buddha in this world –
gyalsé tsok kyi pomé jin chok tsol
Children of the Buddha, bestow your supreme and changeless blessing.

tsar duk langtso tsenpé zibar ku
Your beautiful and youthful form is ablaze with the marks of perfection;
zab yang chö tsul tsang yang drukchü sung
Your voice, teaching the vast and profound Dharma, is melodious with sixty qualities;
gyal kün tuk yön trinlé yong kyi pal
And your mind, the wisdom of all the victorious ones, is replete with the glory of awakened
qualities and activity –
tsokyé dorjé chimé chok drub dzö
Padmavajra, grant the supreme accomplishment of immortality.

dral min yönten cha dzok khyentsé wang
Force of kindness and knowledge1 – free and fully mature, your qualities are perfect;
lungtok chökyi lodrö gyatsö ter
Treasure of the oceanic intelligence of the Dharma2 of scripture and realization;
khedrub wangpo yeshe gyumé gar
Illusory dance of wisdom, you are a master of learning and accomplishment –
tsungdral trulpé ku chok tak shyuk sol
Peerless and Sublime Tulku, please remain forever.

jamgön lama khyen dang tsewé ter
Thupten Chökyi Gyatso, you are the supreme heart disciple of our guru,
terchen gar wang rabsal dawa yi
The lordly Rabsel Dawa, Gentle Protector, the great majestic tertön,
tuksé chokgyur tubten chö gyatso
A veritable treasure of compassion and wisdom.
shyabpé takten shyedön lhündrub sol
May your life remain forever secure and your wishes be effortlessly fulfilled.

chökyi pungpo gyé tri shyi tong nam
You have thoroughly discerned the eighty-four thousand bundles of Buddha's teaching,
chörab namjé yangdak rikpa yi
And, with a fine intelligence,
chöké sarpé dzamling tadru kün
You explain them in new ways throughout the entire world.
chö shyin kyong khé gön khyé tak shyuk sol
Protector skilled in sustaining the ways of the Dharma – please remain forever.

ngabgyé tamar böyul gyalwé ten
In these, the last five hundred years of the Buddha's Word in Tibet,
shintu nyamtak tokgé ten truk tsé
Many hard-headed and obnoxious intellectuals have sought to confuse Buddha's authentic teaching.
nyamtok tsal dang drubpé namchö kyi
In reply, with a display of experience and realization, along with the accomplishment of sublime
wisdom,
drubgyü la ru dek dzé tak shyuk sol
You raise the status of the practice lineage – please remain forever.

tsemé tabkhé rik sar trul lam né
Master of limitless means, you are skilled in new ways of explaining the magical path.
duwa nam shyi ö lab jé khepé
You skilfully send out the light waves of the four means of attracting disciples,
gyumé dro la gyumé da tön khen
And, having seen the illusory nature of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
khordé gyumar zik khyé tak shyuk sol
Use illusory means to demonstrate the Dharma to illusory beings – please remain forever.

dorna böyul gyalwé ringluk kyi
In essence, you are a complete master of the unmistaken and wonderful paths
shé dang drubpé lamzang manorwa
Of explaining and accomplishing the long-established Buddhist traditions of Tibet,
yongdzok wanggyur gongmé namtar shyin
In keeping with the exemplary lives of your predecessors.
kyong khé khedrub wangpo tak shyuk sol
Master of learning and accomplishment who is skilled in sustaining these paths – please remain
forever.

zab gong lha lam yangpor tak sharwé
The piercing light that brings benefit and happiness through unflinching truth and fresh insights
drang den rik sar pendé ö nön chen
Has dawned permanently within the vast celestial pathway of your profound realization
luk nying mong nyi ching gya trol khepé
To awaken us from the slumber of old, outdated ways and set us free.
shyegong lhündrub dzé ö künkhyab mön
May the brilliance of your wishes and intentions effortlessly pervade everywhere.

shyi ying kadak gyurmé künkhyab long
The dhātu of the ground is an all-pervasive expanse that is unchanging and primordially pure;
lhündrub ösal pomé dewa ché
Its natural luminosity is unchanging great bliss;
nyamnyi mi yo lhün nyam yangpa ru
Their evenness is vastness itself, unwavering and spontaneous.
shyomshyik yongdral pochen dang kur mön
May you remain in the pure kāya of great transference beyond dissolution or destruction.

The sole protector of the oceanic teachings of the land of snows is Mañjuśrī himself – the play
of Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentse, who is the foremost amongst the heart-sons of our guru,
the gentle protector, Dilgo Khyentse Rabsel Dawa – the supreme, Dzongsar Khyentse, Thupten
Chökyi Gyatso. According to the Tibetan calendar this, his sixty-first year, is an obstacle
year. Thus, I, the one who holds the name of Shechen Rabjam Tulku, wrote this supplication
on the tenth day of the eleventh month of the Iron Mouse year during the seventeenth calendrical
cycle, and humbly offered it with the prayer that it might act within mutual dependence
and overturn said obstacles.

| Translated by Lama Sean Price. © Shechen Publications, 2020. Reproduced here with the kind
permission of Rabjam Rinpoche.
↑ Khyentse (mkhyen brtse).
↑ Chökyi Lodrö (chos kyi blo gros).